---
layout: page
title: Study Objective
subtitle: Statement of Purpose 
---
 
<p>My company is a good company. Born as the first generation Robo-Advisor company in Korea seven years ago, we sustained our leading position as the No. 1 Robo-Advisor company in Korea although there are many such companies today.</p>
 
<p>What differentiates us, however, is our progressiveness DNA. Founded by a former Boston Consulting Group (BCG) consultant, who is an open-minded, progressive-thinking CEO, we are always preparing for the future by encouraging R&D of the latest, state-of-the-art technologies. Our motto is simple; “try as many times as you want, and it is perfectly fine to fail if you bounce back right away”. As such, very often than not, I felt as if I am working for a research lab, almost like I am a graduate student: <br>In fact, five out of my six papers were authored while working for this for-a-profit company.</p>
 
<p>In sum, working for my company is truly fulfilling - and yes fun.</p>
 
<p>But we are in the red every year. We live off the $100 million investment we attracted only because of our investors’ vote of confidence in our potential. Likewise, I want to contribute to realizing this <em>potential</em>. And I see a huge potential because all the business areas that we are present in are just starting to take their first steps (I believe that only 0.0000001% of all that we can achieve is realized today). All that we can achieve years down the road, some of them perhaps may sound like something out of a science fiction movie, but I know that they will indeed get realized. The question is <em>when</em>. </p>

<p>And in many ways, I have tried to help accelerate the advent of a truly Fintech era also because of sheer passion for finance. As such, every single line on my resume is consistent; my bachelor’s degree in finance, master’s in financial engineering, five year long work experience in Fintech, while all my research papers are related to “finance” and “AI” as it pertains to finance.</p>
 

<p>However, I need to grow more at your school as the industry is also growing (and changing) every day.</p>

<p>First, I want to understand anomalies in the financial markets. The numerous financial economic models that I studied, perhaps for the sake of simplifying economic analyses, assume that the market is “efficient.” However, many studies report the existence of anomalies in the financial markets, and I also observed them while working as a researcher for five years. For example, a study I conducted demonstrated that the price of a stock that decreased overnight, bounced back in the next daytime trading session (Ham et al., 2022). In other two studies I conducted, I found that the magnitude of anomalies and the degree of sustainability differed according to the countries and their assets (Ham et al., 2019; Ham et al., Working Paper). What we know now is, I believe, only a tiny tip of a huge iceberg that the scholars are trying to unravel, especially since the number of factors to consider is countlessly many. Likewise, I want to understand the financial market more by analyzing these phenomena from various angles.</p>

<p>Second, I would like to study behavioral finance. To understand the behavior of financial markets, I examined diverse approaches such as the explanation related to the market risk or the market microstructure. Among them, I found the perspective of De Bondt and Thaler (1985) and other scholars of behavior finance convincing: “Market behavior and individual decision-making have many similarities.” Just as it is difficult to say that all humans are rational economic agents (homo economicus), markets also do not necessarily operate rationally. That is, investors, as they are also only human, make decisions based on emotions such as fear and hope. I found this perspective interesting, and thus it was a joy to work on the studies I conducted to this day. Therefore, I want to conduct an in-depth study of behavioral finance that applies psychology to try to understand investors and financial markets.</p>

<p>Third, I wish to utilize diverse AI or statistical models to apply to the diverse areas of finance. Currently, I am leading a joint industry-academia (along with the Yonsei University’s Machine Learning Lab) project that studies “Optimal Trading Execution Strategy” by utilizing AI technology in finance. This project provides a glimpse of the potential of applying AI models in the field of finance. While carrying out this project, I have studied diverse deep learning models such as Temporal Fusion Transformer (Lim et al., 2019) and reinforcement learning models such as Implicit Quantile Networks model (Dabney et al., 2018). But while studying, I realized that the AI models that are developed in the field of Computer Science are focused on images and natural languages. And I also found out that no matter how well-renowned a model may be, it is necessary to modify and to improve the model depending on the data and purpose of data analysis. As such, I am currently working on a paper that focuses on modifying an existing AI model, SENet (Hu et al., 2017) according to financial data, and the paper proposes a model of the “Pivot Attention” structure. Although it may take years before AI can make investment decisions on its own, perhaps these studies are what will turn a sci-fiction-like future into      reality.</p>

<p>Last, but not the least, an interest of mine is to discuss to re-define the meaning of investment and study financial regulation to protect investors. Recently, KAIST, where I earned my master’s, organized the Rotating FinTech Conference with the participation of four education institutions (EDHEC-Risk Institute, KAIST, Princeton and Tsinghua Universities) where one of the topics discussed was on the ultimate goal of Robo- Advisor. During the heated debate, questions like, “Is this for asset management or for making significant profit quickly?” were raised. This question is also the question that I ask myself every day as I am managing approximately $50 million worth of clients’ capital via s Robo-Advisor developing asset allocation strategy with ETFs. Every client’s investment style, if nothing else, is different. Not that I side with any investment style, but then re-defining the goal is essential because development of investment tools like a Robo-Advisor can depend on it. But one widespread perception is that Robo-Advisors are for a quick big gain. This perception, I witnessed while at the company; I saw how the public (and even the employees of my company) have the wrong perception of investment via AI; the generally held perception is that AI guarantees immense profits. Although this is a recurring topic up for heated debate, still the purpose of AI-driven investment that I advocate is not for “getting rich quick game” but to manage for a healthy personalized asset management”, and that it stands for the equality of information (information that is available only for those very few handful investors who invest over $1 million, for instance). Towards this end, I wish to study the investment direction and philosophy and policy direction for applying financial technologies because recently, lack of such direction, led to the suicide of a family of three. Their daughter was only 10 years old. The father had invested in coins, hoping for a quick jack pot.</p>

<p>This is not a tragedy that affected only one family. According to the Foreign Policy, for the past two decades, Korea has had the highest suicide rate among developed nations: 24.6 suicides for every 100,000 people in South Korea in 2019; economic woes are a major cause. Although there may be many causes of economic woes, given the recent investment patterns, this number would also include those with their dreams of getting rich quickly crumbling down like this one family. This, to me, indicates the importance of addressing the question, “How can we guide financial regulation and help investors to make better decisions for healthy investment?”</p>

<p>I need you for all these research topics. Once I realize all that I wish to achieve at your school, I will be ready for my goal of carrying out joint studies as a professor with my fiancé of seven years. As we have      shared this goal, he also applied to another department of your school to specialize in Statistics and Machine Learning. </p>

<p>Please grant me the lifetime opportunity to study this field that I am passionate about. Meanwhile, I do believe that my experiences to this day equipped me with the necessary academic competence to excel in my Ph.D. studies. For one, teamwork amidst a highly diverse setting is my forte after having collaborated with so many different professionals. From a BCG consultant, engineers from Samsung Electronics, computer geniuses, a Princeton-educated physicist to a Stanford History Ph.D. graduate, I worked with them day and night to develop algorithms to launch Korea’s first Robo-Advisor. And as someone who tasted growth (and success) of a company (I joined when we were only 20; now we have over 100 employees) while leading many projects, I have a good feel for replicating success. But more than anything, my passion – the same passion that drove me to rush to a library or a café after a long day at work to work on my papers – comes from my powerful motivation to help people and businesses enjoy financial stability and prosperity alike through finance.</p>
